---
layout: post
title:  "The Espionage Act of 1917"
date:   2017-06-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories: History
---

The Espionage Act of 1917 was enacted near the start of WW1 and was intended to prohibit interference with the military and to prevent support of U.S. enemies. It also had severe consequences for people convicted under it and for these reasons I think that more people should learn about it and the effect it had on the American public. New American citizens should learn about the Espionage Act because it is an important part of US history.

The Espionage Act of 1917 is a law that was passed on June 15, 1917. It was intended to prevent the support of United States enemies during wartime. Anyone convicted under the act was subject to a prison sentence of 20 years and a fine of $10,000. The Espionage Act of 1917 was passed right after the United States entered World War I in April 1917.

After the Espionage Act became law, The Postmaster General sent a message to postmasters telling them to keep a close watch on matter that might interfere with the success of the war. Many postmasters then refused to mail Tom Watson's newspaper, the Jeffersonian because he was an opponent of the draft and the war. When Watson sought to stop this, the judge who heard his case denied the request.

This event is important to understand because its passing made it a crime to distribute information that interfered with the armed forces of the United States or aided its enemies. This was punishable by death in extreme cases. A recent example of a person that has been tried under this law is former NSA employee Edward Snowden after he released thousands of classified documents to the public. He subsequently fled to Russia to seek asylum. Another person that was convicted under the Espionage Act was labor activist Eugene V. Debs, who, after a speech he made in 1918 in Canton, Ohio, was sentenced to 10 years in prison for criticizing the Espionage Act.

In summary, the Espionage Act of 1917 is important for American citizens to understand because it was an important part of history and of the war and it still affects people greatly today.




**Sources**
Kennedy, David. *The First World War and American Society*. OUP USA, 2004.

United States Congress. *Congressional record*. 1961.

“Hartzel v. United States 322 U.S. 680 (1944)” *Justia*. US Supreme Court.
	19 April 2017
	<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/322/680/case.html>.

United States Court of Appeals. *United States v. Kenneth Wayne*. 2008
